(Destin) looks good.
Perfect
Hey, I am in Destin. Welcome back to Smarter Every Day.
Today I will show you something fascinating:
If you take a normal and spaghetti spaghetti ...
(you can do it at home)
and bend it to the point that it breaks,
He does not do what he seems to have to do.
It is not broken in two pieces, it breaks into three.
It happens practically always, do you see?
This has been broken in the middle.
Today at Smarter Every Day we will wait for the children
end the dinner and we will look for the
Phantom V1610 to record this at 250,000 frames per second.
And we will reveal the secret of why spaghetti
they crumble in this way.
You are getting smarter every day.
[music]
If you have not yet gone to the kitchen,
do it now Take a handful of spaghetti and put on your glasses,
because science is about to happen.
One at a time, take them by the two ends, and bend them until they break.
You will notice that most break in more than two pieces.
Now you may think that there is not therefore ...
But, and there are so many!
You will see that it is easy to understand why fold
a bar causes it to break into two pieces.
The bottom part is compression and the top to traction.
When the traction is over voltage
Maximum permissible, it breaks in half.
and finish with only two pieces of bar.
Why Spaghetti Are Different?
Something else happens here.
The simple act of spitting the spaghetti has left perplexing
Bright scientists for many years, including Richard Feynman,
who as you should know, went to the team of theoretical physicists
of the Manhattan project, and also won the
Nobel in physics in 1965.
Everyone accepts that Richard Feynman was a genius,
so it's not surprising that his theory on
Spaghetti slicing in many chunks makes a lot of sense.
If you have already tried it on your own, you know that when you kick them
notice a little vibration at your fingertips.
He thought that this vibration, if it were important enough,
It could affect the first two halves
enough to cause a second fracture in the bar.
To put it to the test, Feynman and a friend decided
Peel spaghetti under water to avoid this vibration.
He was surprised to realize that when they were pitted under water
It continued to look like they were multiplying in fragments.
So here we have.
If an intelligent father like Richard Feynman could not find out,
what possibilities do we have?
We will discover it in my kitchen.
This is what we are doing:
My wife has brought many different types of pasta at home.
Those I asked for.
We have taken them out and we are doing an experiment
With this high-speed camera, it's a Phantom V1610.
We have mounted the lighting and we will simply sit down,
We will break pasta and we will observe.
I have searched for the Internet and the fastest images I have found
They were at 4,000 frames per second.
So to advance science,
We will start with a minimum of 18,000 frames per second.
What clearly should you tell us something, right?
[Slow break]
Ua.
How fast
OK. I could not say where it broke first.
We will zoom and go box to box.
[break]
It's clear that it's going too fast.
The two fractures seem to pass at the same time.
Let's look at another one that is still breaking more,
and we'll see if it brings a little more light to the thing.
[break]
What ?!
It's as if it broke all the points exactly at the same time,
which is crazy because we are on a time scale
below milliseconds.
I do not know very clearly what those who looked at it saw
to 4,000 pictures per second, but I do not see it.
So we will shoot the right up to 40,000 frames per second,
which is ten times faster than any of the studies I have read.
[break]
Hmm. Okay, we're starting to learn something.
At least, I can say that the right side has broken before.
But it still looks like there are less than 100 microseconds of difference
Between the two, that is very and very fast.
Let us also look at the direction in which the broken fragments rotate.
Let's look at another to see if the vibration has something
to see with the second fracture.
[break]
No.
In fact, it seems that even the long parts
They vibrate at the same speed.
There is one thing here, though.
If you look at it, when the small parts begin to rotate,
It seems they always turn away from the first fracture.
The back, however, seems to break down.
It is as if the spaghetti tried to stand straight
but he can not with his own mass.
Fit the belts, because we move to 250,000
frames per second.
[break]
Nano, we had to go much faster than I thought it would be necessary to find the answer,
but here you have it.
I mean, it's not the vibration.
It is the curvature of the spaghetti as it is straight.
Think like this:
The spaghetti is subjected to a moment of strength, right?
And due to this moment, it bends by curving.
And when it breaks in a point, the side that touches the fissure
happens to be overcast.
But there is still the internal moment,
so it begins to move from left to right,
turning upwards and rectifying from one end to the other.
Because the portion on the left is already straight
and the one on the right is still a curve,
The point where one is with each other has even more curvature,
which folds the spaghetti below the minimum radius of fault.
And that causes the fracture.
It is as if one side did not receive the message quickly enough.
If all the spaghetti was released at the same time there would be no problem,
but he does not.
It breaks along its length.
Every time you have a new fracture, the process starts again.
This physical phenomenon is called a cascade fracture.
Until recently, the mathematics behind this phenomenon
they did not understand much
But I have found a French study on it that has greatly affected me,
as well as a very legal simulation that a few oil engineers have done in Norway.
As far as I know, the video we have just seen explores in more depth
This physical phenomenon was any of the things that had been done.
We've just finished a quarter of a million boxes per second,
something awesome
Well, here you have it.
The secret to spaghetti is not just a trick for the holidays.
Next time you boil spaghetti,
watch, because you are about to explore leading areas
of scientific knowledge.
Thank you very much to see this chapter of Smarter Every Day.
If you want to take a book that talks about things
that Richard Feynman studied, I recommend a book of Audible
What is it called "What a joke, Mr. Feynman?"
I am listening now and it is really good.
If you want to support Smarter Every Day
go to Audible.com/smarter and download
"What a joke, Mr. Feynman?" and you will be giving
I support Smarter Every Day and I
i will appreciate it a lot
So, thank you very much.
I'm in Destin,
You are getting smarter every day,
have a good time
(boy) Uoo!
(Destin) Have you ever heard of Richard Feynman?
(children) No. No idea.
- No idea?
- I have no idea who he is, but he sounds funny.
- [laughs] Well, it was.
He is a little different from his father, but he is a smart and amazingly intelligent paio.
Three
Minimum four.
I hope this video has earned your subscription.
If not, just enjoy this confusing fish.
Thanks.